# Shortcut

## About
Shortcut is a pragmatic share url shortener for people who know what a rewrite rule is. 
It allows to shorten the share urls generated by owncloud by replacing the base url by a shorted one as configured. 
That approach works fine, it relies on two presumptions: 
 - a second domain or base url with a shorter name than the owncloud base url is available
 - a rewrite rule has been configured to forward request from the short base url to the long one
If you are not sure what this is about, then this is not for you. 

## Usage
### Step 1: Install the app
Just activate the app if it is offered by owncloud (I never understood the logic what apps are offered)
If not, then unpack the apps code into a folder called "shortcut" in ownclouds "app" folder and activate it.  
Re-login to owncloud to run the updater (whyever owncloud suddenly needs that in newer versions)

### Step 2: Configure the app
In the "admin" section of the owncloud frontend is a separate section for the app offering a single text input field. 
Fill in the base url you created the rewrite rule for, so the short domain/url. 

### Step 3: Use the app
If a base url has been configured then ownclouds share dialog will be modified to allow shortening of share urls. 
You will find an additional button at the upper right corner of the share url text field. 
Click that button to toggle between long and short share url. 
Copy and use whichever variant suits you. 

## Disclaimer
This software, further called "the app", comes without any warranty, not in general and not for a specific purpose. 
It may work as described, or it may fail party or completely, or it may destroy your computer, your data, your life. 
The author is not responsible for any harm done by using the app. 
Only use the app if you accept that definition and are willing to take the risk. 

## Questions and answers
Q: I don't know what a rewrite rule is, but I am willing to learn. Where do I start? 
A: Consult documentations, StackExchange, a good friend or a payed consultant to learn about that stuff. 

Q: The app does not appear to be localized. Why has that not yet been done? 
A: There is no reason for that. 

Q: Can I use this app to integrate my YOURLS installation which I am very happy with into owncloud? 
A: No. That does not make any sense. 

Q: Can I somehow use a public url shortening service to access shares on my owncloud with this app? 
A: No. 

Q: I installed the app but I cannot enable it. How can I fix that? 
A: You should read the owncloud documentation about how to install apps. Follow it. ping ping 

Q: I installed the app but it does not work. How can I fix that? 
A: You forgot to configure it. Do that. 

Q: I installed and configured the app but it does not work. How can I fix that? 
A: You configured it wrong or did not provide the presumtions mentioned above. Fix that.

Q: I installed and configured the app and checked the setup but the app still does not work. How can I fix that?
A: I have no idea. If you understood what this is about, then you are expected to figure that out yourself. 

Q: Are you for hire? 
A: No. 

Q: Can I pay you for the app or otherwise share my wealth with you? 
A: No. Do something useful with your money instead. Support refugees or educational projects.

Q: Can I ask you something? 
A: Sure. Actually I am not grumpy at all. You are welcome! So...?
